README.md, before:

# Scripts

A collection of my tiny but useful Emacs Lisp code.

Most of the code here extracted from my [.emacs.d](https://github.com/azzamsa/emacs.d/)

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->
**Table of Contents**

- [Scripts](#scripts)
    - [Buffers](#buffers)
        - [Kill ALL buffers](#kill-all-buffers)
    - [Date Time](#date-time)
        - [Insert today's date](#insert-todays-date)
    - [Org](#org)
        - [Insert filename as heading](#insert-filename-as-heading)
    - [Programming](#programming)
        - [Compile UI file to py](#compile-ui-file-to-py)
    - [Misc](#misc)
        - [Remove secrets from region](#remove-secrets-from-region)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->


## Buffers

### Kill ALL buffers

I use `crux-kill-other-buffers` for some time. But crux didn't kill
dired buffers. So I made my own. This will kill ALL buffer including
dired, but special buffers.

``` elisp
(defun aza-kill-other-buffers ()
  "Kill all buffers but current buffer and special buffers.
(Buffer that start with '*' and white space ignored)"
  (interactive)
  (when (y-or-n-p "Really kill all other buffers ? ")
    (let ((killed-bufs 0))
      (dolist (buffer (delq (current-buffer) (buffer-list)))
        (let ((name (buffer-name buffer)))
          (when (and name (not (string-equal name ""))
                     (/= (aref name 0) ?\s)
                     (string-match "^[^\*]" name))
            (cl-incf killed-bufs)
            (funcall 'kill-buffer buffer))))
      (message "Killed %d buffer(s)" killed-bufs))))

```

Before:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/51159142-3ee9bc80-18ba-11e9-82d1-6255ccd59b58.png)

With `aza-kill-other-buffers`:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/51159246-d222f200-18ba-11e9-9f61-91fe0984868c.png)

With `crux-kill-other-buffers`: (dired buffer didn't get killed)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/51159188-77899600-18ba-11e9-9aba-a6567e6dce4b.png)

## Date Time

### Insert today's date

![aza-today](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/52390960-a10a9b80-2acd-11e9-90c2-c15f4fcb06c8.gif)

This function will insert today's date if invoked without arguments
and no active region. Prefix arguments specifies how many days to
move, arguments can be negative, negative means previous day. If
region selected, make fake today's date according to the date under
region.

``` elisp
(defun aza-today (&optional arg)
"Insert today's date.

A prefix ARG specifies how many days to move;
negative means previous day.

If region selected, parse region as today's date pivot."
  (interactive "P")
  (let ((date (if (use-region-p)
                  (ts-parse (buffer-substring-no-properties (region-beginning) (region-end)))
                (ts-now)))
        (arg (or arg 0)))
    (if (use-region-p)
        (delete-region (region-beginning) (region-end)))
    (insert (ts-format "%A, %B %e, %Y" (ts-adjust 'day arg date)))))
```

The 'beautiful' way to do region is using `(interactive "r")` but it
always complain 'The mark is not set now, so there is no region' if
you never invoke mark region before (e.g after Emacs start up).


## Org

### Insert filename as heading

![insert-heading](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/52390975-acf65d80-2acd-11e9-9c48-4761ceef2e25.gif)

Most of the time my org first heading name is the same as filename. So I
made this function. My habit is to separate word in filename by
dash. You can modify to your liking.

``` elisp
(defun insert-filename-as-heading ()
  "Take current filename (word separated by dash) as heading."
  (interactive)
  (insert
   (capitalize
    (replace-regexp-in-string "-" " " (file-name-sans-extension (buffer-name))))))

```

## Programming

### Compile UI file to py

Compile Qt user interfaces to Python code directly from Emacs. Put
your point in `foo.ui` then invoke this function.

``` elisp
(defun compile-ui-to-py ()
  "Compile Qt5 user interfaces to Python code directly from
Emacs."
  (interactive)
  (let ((inputfile (dired-get-filename))
        (outputfile
         (file-name-sans-extension
          (file-name-nondirectory (dired-get-filename)))))
    (start-process "" nil "pyuic5" inputfile
                   (concat "--output=" default-directory outputfile ".py"))))
```

## Misc

### Remove secrets from region

![rm-mysecrets](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/52390983-bc75a680-2acd-11e9-94b5-00980acb8eca.gif)

Most of the time I have to attach the program output / log to bug
report. I don't my all my secrets words there.

Of course you need to put `(list-my-secrets)` in your non published files.

``` elisp
(defun list-my-secrets ()
  "The list of my secrets"
  '(("johndoe" . "user")
    ("johndoemachine" . "machine")
    ("johndoe@jdoe.com" . "myemail")))

(defun rm-mysecrets ()
  "Remove all confidential information."
  (interactive)
  (dolist (pair (list-my-secrets))
    (save-excursion
      (replace-string (car pair) (cdr pair)))))

```

Commit message:

Add more info about aza-today

README.md, after:

# Scripts

A collection of my tiny but useful Emacs Lisp code.

Most of the code here extracted from my [.emacs.d](https://github.com/azzamsa/emacs.d/)

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->
**Table of Contents**

- [Scripts](#scripts)
    - [Buffers](#buffers)
        - [Kill ALL buffers](#kill-all-buffers)
    - [Date Time](#date-time)
        - [Insert today's date](#insert-todays-date)
    - [Org](#org)
        - [Insert filename as heading](#insert-filename-as-heading)
    - [Programming](#programming)
        - [Compile UI file to py](#compile-ui-file-to-py)
    - [Misc](#misc)
        - [Remove secrets from region](#remove-secrets-from-region)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->


## Buffers

### Kill ALL buffers

I use `crux-kill-other-buffers` for some time. But crux didn't kill
dired buffers. So I made my own. This will kill ALL buffer including
dired, but special buffers.

``` elisp
(defun aza-kill-other-buffers ()
  "Kill all buffers but current buffer and special buffers.
(Buffer that start with '*' and white space ignored)"
  (interactive)
  (when (y-or-n-p "Really kill all other buffers ? ")
    (let ((killed-bufs 0))
      (dolist (buffer (delq (current-buffer) (buffer-list)))
        (let ((name (buffer-name buffer)))
          (when (and name (not (string-equal name ""))
                     (/= (aref name 0) ?\s)
                     (string-match "^[^\*]" name))
            (cl-incf killed-bufs)
            (funcall 'kill-buffer buffer))))
      (message "Killed %d buffer(s)" killed-bufs))))

```

Before:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/51159142-3ee9bc80-18ba-11e9-82d1-6255ccd59b58.png)

With `aza-kill-other-buffers`:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/51159246-d222f200-18ba-11e9-9f61-91fe0984868c.png)

With `crux-kill-other-buffers`: (dired buffer didn't get killed)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/51159188-77899600-18ba-11e9-9aba-a6567e6dce4b.png)

## Date Time

### Insert today's date

![aza-today](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/52390960-a10a9b80-2acd-11e9-90c2-c15f4fcb06c8.gif)

I work with huge org files that involve many plain timestamp. It's
easy to get previous/next days using prefix arguments e.g +2 or
-4. But it's painful if you need to get previous/next timestamp based
on certain date.

This function will insert today's date if invoked without arguments
and no active region. Prefix arguments specifies how many days to
move, arguments can be negative, negative means previous day. If
region selected, make fake today's date according to the date under
region.

You need to load [ts.el](https://github.com/alphapapa/ts.el) for this
to work. I decide to use ts.el rather than `format-time-string`. It's
more readable, beautiful and less code. To duplicate line/region
faster, I use [crux-duplicate-current-line-or-region](https://github.com/bbatsov/crux)

``` elisp
(require 'ts) 

(defun aza-today (&optional arg)
"Insert today's date.

A prefix ARG specifies how many days to move;
negative means previous day.

If region selected, parse region as today's date pivot."
  (interactive "P")
  (let ((date (if (use-region-p)
                  (ts-parse (buffer-substring-no-properties (region-beginning) (region-end)))
                (ts-now)))
        (arg (or arg 0)))
    (if (use-region-p)
        (delete-region (region-beginning) (region-end)))
    (insert (ts-format "%A, %B %e, %Y" (ts-adjust 'day arg date)))))
```

The 'beautiful' way to do region is using `(interactive "r")` but it
always complain 'The mark is not set now, so there is no region' if
you never invoke mark region before (e.g after Emacs start up).


## Org

### Insert filename as heading

![insert-heading](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/52390975-acf65d80-2acd-11e9-9c48-4761ceef2e25.gif)

Most of the time my org first heading name is the same as filename. So I
made this function. My habit is to separate word in filename by
dash. You can modify to your liking.

``` elisp
(defun insert-filename-as-heading ()
  "Take current filename (word separated by dash) as heading."
  (interactive)
  (insert
   (capitalize
    (replace-regexp-in-string "-" " " (file-name-sans-extension (buffer-name))))))

```

## Programming

### Compile UI file to py

Compile Qt user interfaces to Python code directly from Emacs. Put
your point in `foo.ui` then invoke this function.

``` elisp
(defun compile-ui-to-py ()
  "Compile Qt5 user interfaces to Python code directly from
Emacs."
  (interactive)
  (let ((inputfile (dired-get-filename))
        (outputfile
         (file-name-sans-extension
          (file-name-nondirectory (dired-get-filename)))))
    (start-process "" nil "pyuic5" inputfile
                   (concat "--output=" default-directory outputfile ".py"))))
```

## Misc

### Remove secrets from region

![rm-mysecrets](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17734314/52390983-bc75a680-2acd-11e9-94b5-00980acb8eca.gif)

Most of the time I have to attach the program output / log to bug
report. I don't my all my secrets words there.

Of course you need to put `(list-my-secrets)` in your non published files.

``` elisp
(defun list-my-secrets ()
  "The list of my secrets"
  '(("johndoe" . "user")
    ("johndoemachine" . "machine")
    ("johndoe@jdoe.com" . "myemail")))

(defun rm-mysecrets ()
  "Remove all confidential information."
  (interactive)
  (dolist (pair (list-my-secrets))
    (save-excursion
      (replace-string (car pair) (cdr pair)))))

```
